---
templateKey: blog-post-page
title: "Instructions for Reviewers"
date: 2020-05-26
seo:
  title: "Instructions for Reviewers for EMNLP 2020"
  description: >- 
    Instructions for how to write a high quality review for EMNLP 2020
---

Thank you for reviewing for EMNLP 2020! In order to ensure the quality
of reviews, we would like to share with you the following instructions
for reviewing EMNLP 2020 papers. Please read these instructions before
you start reviewing papers.

## Confidentiality

Please note that the content of any submission to EMNLP 2020, and the
participants in and content of discussion on submissions, are
**confidential**.

## The Review Form

We adapted the review form from [ACL
2020](https://acl2020.org/reviewers/). The review form consists of three
main sections.

**1. In-Depth Review:** This section is for you to give your overall
assessment of the paper and to provide evidence to support your
opinions. There are 7 subsections:

-   **The core review:** This is the most important part. It should
    include your view of the main contributions that the paper intended
    to make and how well it succeeds at making these contributions. From
    your point of view, what are the significant strong and weak parts
    of the paper and the work it describes? This could be a 2 paragraph
    (or longer) essay and/or bullet points. Remember to describe how the
    work advances the state of knowledge in computational linguistics
    and/or highlights why it fails to make a sufficient contribution.

-   **Reasons to accept:** please briefly summarize from your core
    review the main reasons why this paper should be accepted for the
    conference, and how the NLP community would benefit from it. You may
    refer back to your review to provide more context and details.

-   **Reasons to reject:** please briefly summarize the main reasons
    that this paper cannot be published and presented in its current
    form. What are the parts that would need to be improved in order to
    advance the state of knowledge?

-   **Reproducibility:** This year we introduced a reproducibility
    checklist in an effort to increase reproducibility of the research
    work in NLP (see EMNLP 2020 [call for
    papers](/call-for-papers) and [reproducibility
    post](/blog/2020-05-20-reproducibility/)). In
    the review form, please answer the following two questions.

-   "How do you rate the paper's reproducibility? Will members of the
    ACL community be able to reproduce or verify the results in this
    paper?" Scores of 1-5 are used to assess this aspect. The detailed
    explanation for each point level is provided in the review form. N/A
    may be used for papers that do not include empirical results.

-   "Are the authors' answers to the Reproducibility Checklist useful
    for evaluating the submission?". Three choices are provided for this
    question (very useful, somewhat useful, not useful). Note that this
    question is for us to collect feedback regarding the usefulness of
    the reproducibility checklist, and is not about evaluating the paper
    itself.

-   **Overall recommendation:** Here you are asked to synthesize the
    above and come up with your own recommendation for the paper.

    -   Like ACL2020, we have used a 5 point scale with a half point
        increments. The detailed explanation for each point level is
        provided in the review form. These numbers are just a concise
        way of expressing your overall opinion and relative importance
        of the factors mentioned above.

    -   Different from ACL 2020, we are allowing a rating of 3
        (ambivalent). Please try to take a stand on whether the paper is
        above or below the borderline, e.g., by selecting 2.5 or 3.5.
        However, as much as we would like you to do that, if you think
        this is indeed a borderline paper or you are not able to decide,
        you should use 3.

    -   Decisions will be made not just on the scores and certainly not
        on average scores, but will also take into account the whole
        review, reviewer discussion and Area Chair meta-reviews and
        recommendations. However it is important to align your
        recommendation with the reasoning given above, so that authors
        will be able to understand the motivation for the
        recommendations and how decisions were arrived at.

-   **Reviewer confidence:** This section should be used to inform the
    committee and authors how confident you are about your
    recommendation, taking into account your own expertise and
    familiarity with this area and the paper's contents.

-   **Author response:** There will be an author response period. It is
    important for you to check whether author responses have cleared up
    your questions or misunderstandings. This may influence your overall
    recommendation and the core review. If that's the case, please
    update your recommendation and review accordingly (and state in your
    review any new decisions you made so the Area Chairs are aware).

**2. Questions and Additional Feedback for the Authors:** Since we will
have an author response process, for questions you would like the
author(s) to respond to during the response period, please include them
here. This is also the place for you to give suggestions to the authors
to help them improve the paper for the final version (or a future
submission).

**3. Confidential Information:** Your answers to questions in this
section will not be shared with the authors. Here we ask you about the
recommended presentation type (oral vs. poster), recommendation for
awards, any ethical concerns, and confidential comments to the area
chairs and/or PC chairs.

For Best Paper Award, please be open minded and feel free to nominate
good quality papers even though they may not be the typical types. These
can be a survey paper, an opinion paper, a paper about resources and
datasets, a paper for low resource language, an analysis paper, etc. A
committee will evaluate best paper candidates, and we would like to have
a wide variety of paper types in the candidate pool, not just vanilla
empirical research papers. In addition to the best long paper award and
best short paper award, we will give several outstanding paper awards.

## Supplementary Materials

Supplementary materials are allowed as a stand-alone document uploaded
as an additional file. Supplementary materials are, as the name
suggests, supplementary, and you have no obligation to read them. You
should treat them like other citations in submissions that may be
helpful in understanding background or details beyond the scope of the
paper itself.

However, as noted above, given the new requirement for reproducibility,
authors may provide additional information about their datasets and
experiments in Appendix, and attach a zip file with resources such as
code and data. Please take some time to check those, if applicable.
Uploading data and/or code alongside paper submissions is preferred over
supplying a hyperlink. The latter could violate double-blind review
practices.

## Secondary Reviewers

As in most previous NLP conferences, you are allowed to solicit help
from others. However, when it comes to writing the final review and
giving the final scores, we expect you to take the secondary reviewer's
review and rewrite it using your own words and adjust the scores when
you see fit. Essentially, the final review should reflect your own
opinions about the paper, and you need to be able to justify the
opinions you present in the final review.

## Format of Submissions

The program chairs and area chairs have already identified submissions
that violated our formatting guidelines and have desk-rejected those
submissions. Therefore, you do not need to worry about formatting issues
with the submissions assigned to you. If you think the paper violates
the format guidelines, please contact your area chairs or PCs.
Otherwise, the paper format shouldn\'t be used to down weight evaluation
of the paper.

## Important Dates

Your reviews are due Thursday, July 30, 2020 (11:59pm anywhere on
Earth). Please note that there is a reviewer discussion period from
August 14 to 24 after the author response.
Your duties are listed below. Don't leave reviewing to the last minute!

-   June 26 – July 30: Review Period
-   August 7 – 13: Author response period
-   August 14 – 20: Reviewer discussion period

## Review Advice

Please read our [post on writing good reviews](/blog/2020-05-17-write-good-reviews/).
That post will be publicized before the author rebuttal period such that
the authors are aware of the guidelines and can reference them in their
rebuttal. ACs will be instructed to flag poor reviews, ask reviewers to
revise their reviews or provide objective reasons to justify your
positions.

## Findings of EMNLP

We are introducing a new acceptance option for papers that narrowly miss
out on publication in EMNLP, but are judged to be worthy of publication,
to be published in a special new publication venue, dubbed [_Findings of
EMNLP_](/blog/2020-04-19-findings-of-emnlp/). This
will affect the acceptance decisions made by ACs, SACs and the PCs, but
will not require any specific inputs from reviewers.
